Bash/linux questions
1. How many processes are currently running on your system? Which of them are using more memory/CPU (top 3 in each category)
2. How do you get the current system load (CPU/memory) of your system.
3. What is the order of the configuration files executed (bash profile/rc etc) when you login to the system
4. How do you get the linux version, distribution version, bash version, hostname of your system.
5. Write a simple script that will display the directory contents. (similar to ls, without any options)
6. Identify what run-level you are running in. Where are the run-level scripts stored. what does "K" specify in the filename in the run-level directory.
7. What are the different file/directory permissions? Explain the significance of each field (from ls -l o/p)
8. How do you represent the file/directory permissions numerically?
9. What is umask? How does it affect the file permissions.
10. Customize your login shell so that when you login, it will show you the date/time, system load, number of users logged in. Also the Prompt should be set to the current directory.
11. Write a script that will display the free memory every 5 seconds and should exit afte 1 min. The script should not exit with "Control + C"
12. Write a script that will accept the username as argument to script. THe script should show the number of logins with that username, processes running with the owner as the given username.
13. how different are the text files created under dos and unix w.r.t the newlines? How do you convert one from the other in unix/linux?
14. what are the common utils to compare two files? How is the output of those commands interpreted?
15. How do you run a command/script such that it should not exit even if the terminal window is closed?
16. What are the priority levels a process can have? What is the default priority? How do you increase/decrease it with what effect?
17. How do you change the owner and group for a given file?
18. What are soft links and hard links? Explain where we can use each of them. Where is one more beneficial than the other?
19. Interpret all the fields in your user entry in /etc/passwd and /etc/shadow. Where is the password stored and how?
20. For a given executable how do you identify the libraries that it depends upon?
21. What are the ports used by telnet, ssh, scp, ftp, tftp, http, secure http?
22. What is the use of ping, arp and finger commands
23. What is the use of /etc/hosts file? Where/how does it get used?
24. What is an RPM? How many rpms are currently installed on your system? How do you install/uninstall the RPM?
25. Why Hardlinks are not allowed for directories
26. Write a script that will prompt for username and password. The password should be hidden from user while entering on the terminal. The entered credentials should be validated against a hard-coded username and password and the result displayed as Authenticated successfully / Authentication failed.
27. What is the use of known_hosts file w.r.t ssh.
28. Given a file on the system, how to identify which RPM it came from?
29. How do you identify how many processors, cores are present on your system.
30. How to set a process to run on a particular processor/core?
31. How to know which core a process is running on?
32. HOw to read the CPU load of each individual core.
33. How to know the list of files, sockets etc opened by a given process.
34. What are the options of du, df and free. Where are they used.
35. What is the significance of "buffers/cache" field in the "free" command output. 
36. WHat is "endian-ness". How to identify if the system is little or big endian. What is the difference b/w the two w.r.t storing in memory.
37. What does it mean to say that the system is 32-bit or 64 bit. How to identify if the system is 32 bit or 64 bit.
38. HOw to set the system date and make it persistent.
39. Between cmp and diff, which is the preferred one to see if the given two files differ?
40. Why do people use "grep -v grep" while searching for a process name in the ps output? Can it be avoided?
41. How to reverse the lines in a file? ie the starting line should become the last line and so on..
42. Difference between pwd -P and pwd -L.
43. HOw to remove mulitple occurrences of all the words in a file. (only one entry should be left out, the duplicates should be removed).
44. How to remove the extension of a given file.
45. HOw to convert all lower case letters in a file to upper case?
46. How to reverse the contents of a given file - character level. ie. the first character should be last character in the reversed file.
47. How to display 5 lines starting with 8th line.
48. WHat happens if the first line of the shell script is #!/bin/cat ?
49. What are $1, $2 etc in a script? How to make the second argument as the first argument?
50. What is the use of dirname and basename?
51. A File contains a list of emp name and their salary with name and salary separated by space, one emp details on a single line. How to sort this file w.r.t salary?
52. Sometimes kill -9 <PID> doesn't kill the process. What could be the reason ?
53. How would you know when the system was first installed?
54. How to know the list of all open files on the system? Is there a way to list the files that have been opened by any process under a given directory?
55. find files modified in the last 1 min on the system.
56. Inspect any core file on any MED/CSL setups. Check the size of file by du and ls -l command outputs. Is there any difference. Can you justify if the size differs?
57. Write a script to identify all the directories using more than 1GB disk space.
58. What is IFS. How does it matter in reading file contents in bash.
59. How to execute a script present on another system from current system? 
60. Can we execute the script residing on the current system on a remote system? Is there a way to pass arguments to this script?
61. Explain about the "s" permission bit on a file.
62. What is the sticky bit w.r.t permissions of a file and where is it used?
63. What happens if I run "exec ls" from bash?
64. WHat does "ls >file 2>&1" mean?
65. write a script that identifies if the given string is a palindrome or not?
66. Write a script which does the following: For all the files in a directory, add an extension of 'alien' to the files that do not have any extension.
67. Remove all empty lines from the given file.
68. WHat are the different timestamps associated with a given file?
69. List only the files in a given directory. (skip all sub-dirs)
70. Print the entire file using "grep" command.
71. File1 contains the list of employees (one per line). File2 contains their salaries (one per line). How do you combine these both?
72. Rename a group of files from .txt to .exe in a given directory.
